Isn't the history of
computers super interesting? I love going back in time and seeing how we got to this
exciting point in computing. You've already taken the first few steps
to building your foundational knowledge of IT, and before we dive deeper, I'd like
to take a moment to introduce myself. My name is Devan Sri-Tharan,
I've been working in IT for ten years. I'm a Corporate Operations Engineer
at Google, where I get to tackle challenging and
complex IT issues. Thinking back, my first experience with
tech began when I was about nine years old, when my dad brought home
the family's first computer. I remember my dad holding
a floppy disk and telling me that there was a game on it. To my dad's amazement I somehow
managed to copy the game from disk onto the computer's hard drive. While it might seem like a trivial
task now, this devise was just so new to us back then. Sure, I loved the different games I
could play, but what I really loved was tinkering with the machine, trying to
get it to do what I want it to do. While that floppy disk computer might have
ignited my passion for technology, it was actually my first few job experiences
that really started to shape my IT career. One was in retail,
[LAUGH] selling baby furniture and the other was at a postal store, where I
helped customers ship their packages, and became the one person IT crew. It might sound odd that working
in retail inspired my career, but I've realized I really enjoy
communicating with customers, try to understand their needs and
offering a solution. My first experience working
directly in IT was in college as an IT support specialist intern. From there, I worked as an IT consultant
to decommission an entire IT environment. This was my first experience working
directly with large IT infrastructure, and pushing myself outside my comfort
level as a college student. I bring up these few jobs for a reason. These experiences helped
shape my career in IT. I knew at that time that I
wanted to go into tech, but I struggled where I wanted
to focus my career. Starting at Google as an IT journalist
allowed me to experience many different areas of technology. It allowed me to figure out
the jobs I didn't want to do, before I was able to identify
exactly what I did want to do. Really passionate about IT infrastructure,
but you can't understand infrastructure
until you understand hardware. So let's dig in. In IT, hardware is an essenential
topic to understand. You might find yourself
replacing faulty components or even upgrading an entire
fleet of machines one day. By the end of this lesson, you'll be able
to describe all the physical parts of a computer and how they work together. You'll even be able to
build your own computer. Once you figure out how
one computer works, you'll be able to understand
how any type of computer works. Excited?
I am, let's get started.