Let's face it, computers are everywhere. You come into contact with them at home,
work, the airport, the grocery store, you're using some
type of computer to take this course. You know what? There's probably one in
your pocket right now. While computers are complex and
can seem daunting to learn, they ultimately just calculate,
process, and store data. In this lesson, we're going to take
a peek at what's inside of the computer. We'll spend the next few
lessons explaining how each of these components work. But for now,
let's check out a typical desktop setup. Desktops are just computers that
can fit on or under our desks. So here we have a monitor,
a keyboard, a mouse, and a desktop. Sometimes you might even add a webcam,
speakers, or a printer set up. We'll call these physical components,
hardware. Let's take a look at
the back of the computer. You can see common connectors here,
the power outlet here, and the common ports here. Ports are connection points that
we can connect devices to that extend the functionality of our computer. We're going to detail about the ports
you see here in a later lesson. But here's a quick rundown. We have a port here to
connect to a monitor, and a few ports here to plug your keyboard and
mouse. There's another important one here for
our network connection. With just these ports, we're able to have the basic functionality
to browse the web and much more. Things look pretty similar in a laptop. Here are some of the same ports. A built-in monitor, And a keyboard. There are also physical components inside
the laptop case that are hidden for portability. Once you figure out how
one computer works, you can figure out how
any other computer works. Okay, this is my favorite part. Let's open up this desktop and
take a deeper look. Let me first clean up my desk. Get ready for it. Whoa, it looks pretty complicated,
but that's okay. We'll take you through it. Let's start with a quick tour. Then we'll dive deeper into each
of these parts in the next lesson. Right here, this component,
it's a CPU or central processing unit, which is covered by this heat sink. You could think of the CPU as
the brain of our computer. The CPU does all the calculations and
data processing. It communicates pretty heavily
with this component right here, RAM or Random Access Memory. RAM is our computer's short-term memory. We use this component when we
want to store data temporarily. Like let's say,
you're typing something into a chat or a piece of text in a word processor. This information is stored in the RAM. Don't worry, we'll cram in more
details on RAM in the later lesson. When we want to store
anything in long-term memory, we use this component here,
the hard drive. The hard drive holds all of our data, which can include music,
pictures, applications. Let me show you something
else interesting. Have you noticed this large slab here? This is our motherboard. It holds everything in place and lets our
components communicate with each other. It's the foundation of our computer. You can think of
the motherboard as the body or circulatory system of the computer
that connects all the pieces together. The last component we'll talk about
is our power supply, which converts electricity from our wall outlet onto
a format that our computer can use. You know what's interesting? All these components make up most
computers, even a mobile phone. While it might look very different from
your laptop, a mobile phone just uses a smaller version of the hardware that
we saw in the desktop and laptop today. So now that we've covered
the basic anatomy of the computer, we'll go over each of these components
in depths in the next few lessons. Understanding how computer hardware works
is a really helpful skill set in IT support, since an IT department maintains
the hardware that a company uses. A solid understanding of these computer
internals will come in handy when troubleshooting hardware related problems,
and taking things apart to see how
they work is just super fine.