In the last lesson you learned
how an operating system boots up. It's an important concept to understand
since you'll be faced with troubleshooting boot up issues in IT support. Now we're going to walk through the steps
to select and install an operating system. We're going to focus on operating
systems in the IT space. First, we'll talk about deciding
which operating system to install in a business setting. Second, we'll dive into the overall
process of installing an operating system. So how do you decide which
operating system to install? Well, you need to ask yourself
a couple of questions. Has the decision already been made? The operating systems in
use by an organization have a lot to do with the applications and
systems that they need to run. Are you working with an organization or service that requires the use
of a specific operating system? If so, you're done that's easy. If the decision hasn't been made on
what OS to use, or if you're looking for an operating system for personal use,
then you need to ask yourself, what software will need
to be run on this device. In lots of cases, the software will be designed to
run on a specific operating system. It's also possible that
the software is cross platform, meaning it can run on more
than one operating system. Another question to ask is,
what hardware will be used? Modern operating systems do a pretty
good job of supporting common hardware. You should keep in mind that
some manufacturers allow their opperating system to be only
installed on their hardware. Still a little confused about which
operating system is best for you or your organization? Check out the supplemental reading
right after this video to learn more. There's one more thing I should call out. Remember that we have different CPU
architecture's, 32-bit and 64-bit. Our operating systems will also be
optimized for this architecture, so make sure that the CPU and
OS are compatible. If you have a 64-bit CPU, you should also install the 64-bit version
of the operating system you choose. Okay, now that you've chosen an operating
system that you want to use, let's work on getting it
installed on our hardware. Many computers come with
an operating system pre-installed. If you boot the computer
in this condition, the operating system will continue from
whatever point the vendor left it at. You'll need to do a couple of things
to finish the installation, like choosing a computer name, or host name, or
configuring the network for the device. There's more, but
we won't worry about that now. When we walk through an installation
of an operating system, you'll be able to see this. If you're going to be installing
an operating system from scratch, you can use different installation media. Some operating system manufacturers sell
their operating system in disc form or USB form. Some let you do reinstalls
directly over the internet. As an IT support specialist, you'll
install an operating system many times, so using one single disk won't be
time efficient or scalable. Scalability is an important
concept that we'll cover later. If you want to scale or
accommodate multiple computers, the added support is something
you need to keep in mind. For now, you're only working with
one computer so let's focus on that. Let's just use a USB drive to
install your operating system. Some OS manufacturers have their own
special USB drives with the installation image like Windows. For Linux we can load up
an OS onto any USB drives. You'll see what I mean by that
in the next couple of videos. See you there.