Before we start installing our operating system, we need to be familiar with the concept of virtual machines or VMs. A virtual machine is just a copy of a real machine. Why would you want that? We've been working with physical machines so far, but there are cases in IT support, where we need access to a machine that isn't physically in front of us. Let's say, I have a Windows machine and I want to learn another operating system like Linux. I don't want to buy another computer or have two separate operating systems on my disk. Instead, I can use an application like Virtual Box to install Linux and have it completely isolated from my machine. Virtual machines use physical resources like memory, CPU and storage, but they offer the added benefit of running multiple operating systems at once. They're also easier to maintain and provision. Virtual machines have become a staple in many IT departments since they allow IT support specialists to create new virtual computers on demand. They can also reclaim the resources they use when they're no longer needed. If you wanted to use software that's only available on one specific OS, it's easier to create a new virtual machine, use the software, and then delete the virtual machines once you're done. Throughout this program, you'll actually be using VMs to perform hands-on exercises. You'll be working on our Quick Labs platform, where you'll be presented tasks to complete from within a lab setting. We list out the specific tasks you'll need to complete and once you complete the tasks, you'll get the credit for the lab. Let's go ahead and do a quick walk through. Okay, let's check out a sample lab. I'm going to navigate to one of the labs that you'll be working with later on. When you log into the lab, you'll be presented with a doc with instructions on what you need to do to complete the lab. If you see here at the top, you'll also have a time remaining count down timer. This tells you how much time you have to complete the lab once you click the Start Lab button. In this very first quick lab that you'll do, we give you instructions on how quick lab works and how to log into your Quick Labs instance. I won't go over how to do that for now, as you'll get to do that yourself on Quick Labs. For now, I just want to show you how to connect to the Quick Labs' virtual machine. I'm going to go ahead and click Start Lab. This will create a temporary count for me on the Google Cloud Platform, or GCP, or where our virtual machine will be hosted. Then, I'll be given account information for the Google Cloud platform. If I click Open Cloud Console, I'll be prompted to log in with this account information. I'm just going to copy and paste this information in the login window here. Once I'm in, I'll be prompted to agree to the terms of service. I've already read the terms of service, so I'm going to hit Accept. There might be another terms of service agreement you'll have to agree to when you're in the GCP instance. I'm going to go ahead and accept this agreement as well. Okay, now we're in the Google cloud platform. Don't worry about all this information here. It's not important. What is important is on the left-hand side here. We're going to go to compute engine, then we're going to go to VM instances. Here, you'll see the Windows and Linux instances of this lab. That's right, you're going to be working with both operating systems in Quick Labs. I'm going to connect to my Linux instance really quick by clicking the SSH button. Again, all this information is explained in the Quick Labs instructions and bam, now, we're connected to a Linux virtual machine. Pretty neat, right? Once I'm in my virtual machine, I just do the tasks in the lab. Once I'm done with my lab, I just go back to Quick Labs and click End. This will grade my work and automatically check that I completed what I needed to do in my lab, then remove my temporary GCP account access. Okay, now that we know what a virtual machine is, you can see how they can be extremely useful. We'll revisit the ends in the future and see their other many uses. We're covering a lot of ground fast. Since we're going to start installing operating systems soon, feel free to review these lessons to make sure you fully understand the fundamentals before moving on.