The last operating system we'll
go over is Apple's Mac OS. We won't go into too many details
about how to use this OS. Instead, we'll focus on the ins and
outs of Windows and Linux OSs'. But if you know one operating system, you'll be able to navigate
any operating system. Fortunately, all Apple computers
come with Mac OS pre-installed, so we'll just go through the important
parts of the operating system. Okay, here's the desktop environment for
our Mac. At the bottom here, you'll see a doc
with shortcuts to your applications. In the top right, you've got the system
information like the time and date, network connectivity, battery life, if you have a laptop and
some other quick settings. In the top left here,
you can see the Apple icon. This bar will change menu options
depending on what application is open. But if you click on the Apple icon,
you'll see more options. You can tell your computer to Sleep,
Restart and power off from here. The most important thing we want to look
at is at the System Preferences menu item. This launches our system settings. From here,
we can change any of our computer settings like setting the orientation of our
mouse scroll, adding and removing users. Setting up printers, changing our screen
savers, adding Bluetooth devices and more. I'm going to click on the desktop now. You'll notice our top-left setting changed
from our System Preferences to Finder. Finder is the file manager for all Macs. If you open a new Finder window,
you can navigate the files and folders on your Mac. If you right click on a file,
or if you're using a Mac laptop you can use a two-finger click on
a file to view more information and perform lots of different tasks. The Mac, which is a completely different
operating system than Windows or Linux, operates in a very similar way,
with similar menu options. Wow, you've really come a long way. You've been introduced to the major
operating systems used today, gotten to play around with the system,
and even performed some common tasks. Nice work. It's important in any IT
role to know the ins and outs of operating systems, because you'll
be interacting with them every single day. We have a separate course that teaches you
all the essentials you need to navigate the Windows and Linux OSs'. But for now, pat yourself on the back. You just took the first step
towards understanding OSs'. Installing, managing and
navigating operating systems, are all tasks that you'll have to do
daily as an IT support specialist. You may even find yourself doing this for hundreds, if not thousands of
machines in your fleet one day. Before we send you to the next module,
we have two assessments for you. Which will test you on creating files,
with both Windows and Linux. You can always go back and review
the videos again, if you need a refresher. Otherwise, I'll sign off for now, and
we'll meet again in Course Three, Operating Systems and You,
Becoming a Power User. In the next module,
you'll meet my friend and colleague Victor Escobido who's going to
dig into the Internet and networking.