Imagine if you had to store
a single file in a cabinet. That's not so bad, right? What if, instead of one file,
you had to store 100,000? Can you see a problem here? Well, on our computers, we can easily store hundreds of
thousands of files, if not more. Problem solved? Not quite, we have to be able to
keep track of all these files. The kernel handles file storage and
file systems on our machines. And in this lesson, we're going to dig
a little deeper on how it does that. There are three main components
to handling files on an OS, the file data, metadata, and file system. Let's start with the file system. When we have a brand new hard disk
that we want to store data on, we need to erase and configure the disk. This way our operating system can read and
write data to it. This is important, since it's how our
operating system keeps track of files. So it must know what kind
of file system is used. There are lot of file systems, and
they're used for different purposes. Some file systems support the storage
of large amounts of data, others only support small amounts. They can operate at different speeds, and have varying resiliency towards
file corruption, and so on. We won't get into which
file system is best. That's for you to decide. But the major OS manufacturers have
their own unique file systems that they recommend. For Windows,
the major file system that's used is NTFS. It was introduced in the previous
version of Windows OS, Windows NT. And it includes many features,
like encryption, faster access speeds, security, and more. Microsoft is developing another
file system called ReFS, but it isn't quite ready for
consumer use just yet. If you're interested in learning more, you can read more about it in
the next supplemental reading. For Mac OS,
the default file system is HFS+. It's journaled, which means it does a better job at saving
your disk state in case of a failure. This is a feature on other types
of file systems, like NTFS. For Linux, different distributions
will use different file system types. A standard for file systems for Linux is ext4, which is compatible
with older ext file systems. In general, different file system types
don't play nicely with each other. You might not be able to easily move
files across different file systems, depending on the file system type. A good guideline to use is
just to use the file system that your operating system recommends. You can read more about
the different types of file systems in the supplemental reading. Another important part of file management
is the storage of actual file data. We write data to our hard drive
in the form of data blocks. When we save something to our hard disks,
it doesn't always sit in one piece. It can be broken down into many pieces and
written to different parts of the disk. Block storage improves
faster handling of data because the data isn't stored on one long
piece and it can be accessed quicker. It's also better for
utilizing storage space. Lastly, we need to keep the metadata that
contains the information about our file. There's a lot of information about
our file that we want to know, like who created it, when it was last
modified, who has access to it, and so on. The file metadata tells us everything
we need to know about our file. It also tells us what type of file it is. A file extension is the appended
part of a filename that tells us what type of file it is in
certain operating systems. Take cool_image.jpeg. Jpeg is a file extension
associated with image files. You'll see different types
of file extensions like this when you're working with
your operating system. A working knowledge of file systems and
the differences between them is a great skill to have in your IT
support specialist toolbox. It can be super useful when you need
to do things like recover data from damaged disks. Or explore ways to boot from two
different kinds of operating systems, like Windows and Linux,
on the same computer.