When we interact with our computers
we use our mouse, keyboard or even a touch screen. We don't tell it the actual zeros and
ones it needs to understand something. But wait, we actually do. We just don't ever have to worry about it. We use the concept of abstraction to
take a relatively complex system and simplify it for our use. You use abstraction every day in the real
world, and you may not even know it. If you've ever driven a car, you don't need to know how to operate
the transmission or the engine directly. There's a steering wheel,
some pedals, maybe a gear stick. If you buy a car from
a different manufacturer, you operate it in pretty much the same way even though the stuff under the hood
might be completely different. This is the essence of abstraction. Abstraction hides complexity by providing
a common interface, the steering wheel, pedals, gear stick, and
gauges in our car example. The same thing happens in our computer. We don't need to know how
works underneath the hood. We have a mouse and
a keyboard we can use to interact with it. Thanks to abstractions, the average computer user doesn't have
to worry about the technical details. We'll use this under the hood e metaphor
throughout the program to describe the area that contains the underlying
implementation of the technology. In computing, we use abstraction
to make a very complex problem, like how to make computers work,
easier to think about. We do that by breaking it apart into
simpler ideas that describe single concepts or individual jobs that need to
be done, and then stack them in layers. This concept of abstraction will be
used throughout this entire course. It's a fundamental concept
in the computing world. One other simple example of abstraction
in an IT role that you might see a lot is an error message. We don't have to dig through
someone else's code and find a bug. This has been abstracted out for us
already in the form of an error message. A simple error message like file not found
actually tells us a lot of information and saves us time to figure out a solution. Can you imagine if instead of
abstracting an error message our computer did nothing and we had no
clue where to start looking for answers? Abstraction helps us in many
ways that we don't even realize.