In the last video I mentioned that people
don't need to understand how a computer works for them to use it, because
abstraction makes things simpler for us. That's technically true, but since
you're stepping into the world of IT, you do need to understand all the layers
of a computer and how they work. It's essential that you understand
how the different pieces interact so you can resolve any issue that may arise. For the rest of this course we'll
deep dive into the layers of computer architecture, and learn all
the parts that make up a computer. A computer can be cut into
four main layers, hardware, operating system, software, and users. The hardware layer is made up of
the physical components of a computer. These are objects you can
physically hold in your hand. Laptops, phones, monitors,
keyboards, you get the idea. In the next lesson you'll learn all
of the components of the computer and how they work. You'll even be able to build your own
computer by the end of this module. The operating system allows hardware
to communicate with the system. Hardware is created by many
different manufacturers. The operating system allows them
to be used with our system, regardless of where it came from. In the next few lessons, you'll learn
about the major operating systems that we use today, and
you'll be able to understand all of the underlying components
that make up an operating system. By the end of these lessons, you'll have
a strong grasp on the major components of any operating system,
like Android or Windows, and use that knowledge to navigate
any operating system. The software layer is how we as
humans interact with our computers. When you use a computer, you're given a
vast amount of software that you interact with, whether it's a mobile app,
a web browser, a word processor, or the operating system itself. Later in this course, we'll learn how
software is installed on our systems, and how we interact with
different types of software. The last layer may not seem like
it's part of the system, but it's an essential layer of
the computer architecture, the user. The user interacts with the computer and
she can do more than that. She can operate, maintain, and
even program the computer. The user layer is one of the most
important layers we'll learn about. When you step into the field of IT,
you may have your hands full with the technical aspects, but the most
important part of IT is the human element. While we work with computers every day, it
is the user interaction that makes up most of our job, from responding to user
emails to fixing their computers. By the end of the course, you'll also learn how to apply your
knowledge of how a computer works to fix real world issues that can
sometimes seem random and obscure. We'll do this by learning how to utilize
problem solving tactics to identify issues and solutions. There's a lot ahead. The next instructor you're going to
meet is a friend of mine, Devon. And I know there's no better person
to teach you about hardware. He'll even show you how to build
a computer from its component parts, pretty cool. But before you get to building that
computer, we've got a quiz coming up for you on binary counting.