So, before we get into computer storage,
we need to fill in some gaps. I'm referring to things like gigabytes,
bits, etc. But we actually haven't talked at
all about what those metrics mean. Sorry, I kind of get
a bit ahead of myself. As you might have guessed,
these terms refer to data sizes. The smallest unit of
a data storage is a bit. A bit can store one binary digit,
so it can store a one or zero. The next largest unit of storage is called
a byte, which is comprised of 8 bits. A single byte can hold a letter,
number or symbol. The next largest unit is
refer to as kibibyte, but we typically use the term kilobyte. A kilobyte is made up of 1,024 bytes. If you're curious why 1 kilobyte refers
to as 1,024 bytes and not 1,000 bytes, you can read more about that in
the next supplemental reading. For now,
here's a quick data conversion chart. How much does 500 gigabytes even mean? Let's take a look at the size
of an average music file, which is about three megabytes. On a 500 gigabyte machine,
that's approximately 165,000 music files. That's a lot of music. We store all of our computer's
data on our hard drive, which allows us to store our programs,
music, pictures, etc. Have you ever had an issue
with your computer and lost all the data that
was on your hard drive? Yeah, me too, it was the worst. This actually happens a lot and you'll probably encounter it
as an IT support specialist. Make sure you backup your data to be safe. This means you should copy or
save your data somewhere else, just in case something goes wrong and
your hard drive crashes. That way, you won't lose all your data. There are two basic hard
drive types used today. Hard disk drives, or HDDs,
use a spinning platter and a mechanical arm to read and
write information. The speed that the platter rotate allows
you to read and write data faster. This is commonly referred to as RPM,
or revolution per minute. A hard drive with a higher RPM is faster,
so if you go out and buy a hard drive today, you might see something
like a 500 gigabyte with 5400 RPM. HDDs are prone to a lot more damage
because there are a lot of moving parts. This susceptibility to damage went
away with a new type of storage called solid state drive, or SSD. SSDs have no moving parts. Are you familiar with a USB stick? SSDs are created in a similar way. The information is stored on microchips
and data travels a lot faster than HDDs. The form factor for SSDs is also
slimmer compared to their HDD cousins. Sounds great, doesn't it? So why doesn't everyone use SSDs? Well, both have their pros and cons. HDDs are more affordable, but
they're more prone to damage. SSDs are less risky when it
comes to losing data, but they're also more expensive. So you may not buy as much memory storage
in SSDs than what you can get in HDDs. Believe it or not, there are even
hybrid SSD and HDD drives out there. They offer SSD performance
where you need it. For things like system performance,
such as booting your computer, along with hard disk drives for less
important stuff, like basic file storage. There are a few interfaces that hard
drives use to connect to our system. ATA interfaces are the most common ones. The most popular ATA
drive is a serial ATA, or SATA, which uses one cable for
data transfers. SATA drives are hot swappable. Great term, don't you think? It means you don't have to turn off
your machine to plug in a SATA drive. SATA drives move data faster and
use a more efficient cable, like this one, than it's predecessors. SATA has been the de facto interface for
HDDs today. But people quickly found that using
a SATA cable wasn't good enough for some of the blazing fast SSDs
that were coming on the market. The interface couldn't keep up
with speed of the newest SSDs. So another interface standard was
created called NVM Express, or NVMe. Instead of using a cable to connect
your drive to your machine, the drive was added as an expansion slot,
which allows for greater throughput of data and
increased efficiency.