In order to get our computer to work,
let's give it some power. Computers have a power supply that
converts electricity from your volt to something usable. There are two types of electricity, DC,
or direct current, which flows in one direction and AC, or alternating current,
which changes directions constantly. Our computers use DC voltage, so we have
to have a way to convert the AC voltage from our power company
to something we can use. That's what our power supply does. It converts the AC we get from
the wall into low voltage DC power that we can use and
transmit throughout our computer. So let's talk about power supplies. I actually have one right here. Let me show you how one looks like. Let me take it out right here. So most power supply units have a fan,
which is right in here. They also has voltage information
just normally listed underneath or on the side, and cables, like this one,
to power your motherboard, and, A power cable. Have you ever plugged one of your
devices into the wall outlet and fried your device? If you haven't, you're really lucky. After completing this lesson, hopefully
you will know how to avoid that situation. To understand electricity,
we must use the example of water pipes. Our sinks have a faucet that's
connected to a pressurized water tank. When we turn on the faucet,
water comes out. This is sort of like
how electricity works. When we plug an appliance
into a wall outlet and turn it on,
a flow of electricity comes out. If we added more pressure to our water
tank, would more water come out of it? The higher the pressure,
the more water there will be. When it comes to electricity,
we refer to the pressure as voltage. So when I was on vacation, to my surprise,
when I plugged in that 120 volt appliance into a 220 volt outlet, the power came
busting through and fried my charger. If it was the other way around,
and a 220 volt appliance was plugged into a 120 volt outlet,
I wouldn't have seen the same outcome. I'll still be able to get electricity,
but slowly. This would be similar to if a water
tank whose only half pressurized, it will drew water, but slowly. In some cases though, this can deteriorate
the performance of the device and cause damage in the long term. As a general rule, be sure to use
the proper voltage for your electronics. We refer to the amount of electricity
coming out as current or amperage, and it's measured in amps. We can think of amps as
pulling electricity, as opposed to voltage,
which pushes electricity. Amps will pull as much electricity needed,
but voltage will just give you everything. Look on the back of the one of your device
charges, you might see something like 1 or 2.1a. Charging a device with 2.1 amps will
actually charge a device faster because it's able to put current from
a 2.1 amp than a 1 amp charger. Finally, the other important part of
the electricity that you will need to know is the wattage. Wattage is the amount of volts and
amps that a device needs. If your power supply has
too low of a wattage, you won't be able to power your computer,
so make sure you have enough. This doesn't mean that if you
have a large power supply, you'll overpower your computer. Power supplies just give you
the amount that your system needs. It's best to error on the side
of large power supplies. You can power most basic desktops
with a 500 watt power supply, but if you're doing something more
demanding on your computer, like playing a high-resolution video game
or doing a lot of video production and rendering, you'll likely need a bigger
power supply for your computer. On the other hand, if all you're
doing is just browsing the Web, the power supply that comes with
your computer should be fine. All kinds of issues are caused
by a bad power supply. Sometimes the computer
doesn't even turn on at all. Since power supplies can fail for lots
of reasons like burnouts, power surges, or even lightning strikes, knowing how to
diagnose power issues and replace a failed power supply is a skill every IT support
specialist should have in their toolbox.