Programs, software, and applications, are
terms that are synonymous with each other. For now we'll go ahead and use the term
software to refer to any of these. We've already had a rundown of
the different types of software. There are certain types of software
that perform specific functions, like drivers, which allow us
to interact with our hardware. There are applications that we use for
our day to day job functions. And there are utilities that we use like
a calculator, settings, and other tools. With the seemingly endless options for software, how do we
know which ones to use? How do we deal with them in a workplace
setting and in our personal lives? Software is always changing. Developers are releasing updates, software
companies change, features are added, and so on. This constant change is
completely out of our control and it can cause a lot of
headaches in the IT world. Let's say the company that
builds your payroll system pushes out a software update that
causes settings to change or even worse completely breaks
the compatibility with your own company. It can happen. You should always test new software
before letting your company use it. Another thing to worry
about is old software. When you run old software on your machine,
you risk being exposed to cyber security attacks that take
advantage of software bugs. A software bug is an error in software
that causes unexpected results. We'll deep dive into computer
security in a later course. For now, know that software updates
usually contain critical security updates and new features, and have better
compatibility with your system. A good guideline is to update
your software constantly. Another problem that plagues the IT
world when it comes to software is software management. If you're setting up a computer for
someone, you want to make sure that they'll have all the necessary tools
they need to hit the ground running. That means you'll need to install all
the software required for the job. That also means you'll also want to remove
software that isn't required for the job. We may not realize if a piece of software
we installed is malicious software which causes harm to your computer. It's always a good idea to check if
the software comes from a repudible source before you install it. A common industry practice is to not allow users to install software
without administrator approval. This prevents users from installing
unwanted software because they're actually blocked
with an error message that says they need an administrator
to enter their login credentials. Before we get too far ahead of ourselves,
let's cover the basics of software management which include installing,
updating, and removing software. In the videos up next, we're going to walk
through how to do these steps in a Windows environment and a Linux environment. Ready, set, go.