Remember when I said that a computer
is a device that stores and processes data by performing calculations? Whether you're creating an artificial
intelligence that can beat humans at chess or something more simple,
like running a video game, the more computing power you have
access to, the more you can accomplish. By the end of this lesson, you'll understand what
a computer calculates, and how. Let's look at this simple math problem. 0 +1 equals what? It only takes a moment to come
up with the answer 1, but imagine that you needed to do 100
calculations that were this simple. You could do it, and if you were careful,
you might not make any mistakes. Well, what if you needed to do
1,000 of these calculations? How about 1 million?
How about 1 billion? This is exactly what a computer does. A computer simply compares 1s and 0s, but
millions or billions of times per second. Wowza! The communication that a computer
uses is referred to as binary system, also known as base-2 numeral system. This means that it only talks in 1s and
0s. You may be thinking, okay,
my computer only talks in 1s and 0s. How do I communicate with it? Think of it like this. We use the letters of the alphabet to form
words and we give those words meaning. We use them to create sentences,
paragraphs, and whole stories. The same thing applies to binary,
except instead of A, B, C, and so on, we only have 0 and
1 to create words that we give meaning to. In computing terms,
we group binary into 8 numbers, or bits. Technically, a bit is a binary digit. Historically, we used 8 bits because
in the early days of computing, hardware utilized the base-2
numeral system to move bits around. 2 to the 8th numbers offered
us a large enough range of values to do the computing we needed. Back then,
any number of bits was used, but eventually the grouping of 8 bits became
the industry standard that we use today. You should know that a group of
8 bits is referred to as a byte. So a byte of zeroes and
ones could look like 10011011. Each byte can store one character,
and we can have 256 possible values, thanks to the base-2 system, 2 to the 8th. In computer talk, this byte could
mean something like the letter C. And this is how computer
language was born. Let's make a quick table to translate
something a computer might see into something we'd be able to recognize. What does the following translate to? Did you get hello? Pretty cool, right? By using binary, we can have unlimited
communication with our computer. Everything you see on your computer
right now, whether it's a video, an image, text or anything else,
is nothing more than a 1 or a 0. It is important you
understand how binary works. It is the basis for everything
else we'll do in this course, so make sure you understand
the concept before moving on.