In this video, we're going to learn how to access the Linux virtual machines from the Coursera platform. As you can see here, there's some information about what you'll be doing in the lab, it's learning objectives, and how much time you have to complete it before you can access the lab itself. First, you'll need to click the checkbox and provide an electronic signature, adhering to Coursera's Honor Code. Then you will click the Open Tool button. After you click the button, you'll be navigated to a new browser tab, which you see here is the Qwiklabs environment. Each Qwiklab comes with detailed step-by-step instructions about what you need to do to complete the lab. To start the lab, go to the top right-hand of the screen and click the green button that says, Start Lab. After you click the button, it will take some time to load and set up the lab and the environment. While it's loading, this a good time to read through the instructions about what you'll need to do. After the loading bar has filled up completely, you're now ready to access the Google Cloud Console. Google's Cloud Console technology powers the Qwiklab environments. So, in order to access your Linux virtual machine, first, we need to sign into the Google Console. To do this, click the orange button on the left-hand side of the screen that says, Open Google Console. This will open a new web browser tab that you'll need to sign into. You will not use your own personal Gmail account to access the Google Console. If you're using a Gmail account right now, make sure to sign out of it before moving onto the next step. Let's go back to the previous tab. You're going to use the username and password that you see under the orange Open Google Console button to authenticate. To do this, copy the username by clicking the copy button on the right-hand side then paste it into Gmail in the other tab. Then we're going to do this for the password too. Copy the password and paste it into Gmail. After you pasted the password, click Next. Next, you'll see a Terms of Service agreement from Gmail. To continue on, click Accept. After you click Accept, Gmail will ask you to provide a recovery phone number and email address. You don't need to add a recovery phone number or email because each time you access Qwiklabs, you'll use a new Gmail username and password to sign in. So, for now, just click Done. Next, you'll see the Google Cloud platform interface. A pop-up with the Terms of Service agreement will appear. And you don't need to sign up for updates because this isn't your email address. Make sure you do click Yes to agree to the Terms of Service, then click Accept. Now, you have access to the Google Cloud platform. What we'll want to do now is access our Linux virtual machine. To do this, navigate to the menu on the left-hand side of the screen. Go to Compute Engine and then click on VM Instances. You'll now see a virtual machine instance of the Linux operating system called Linux-Instance. There are a couple of ways you can access the Linux virtual machine. You can click on the project name, click on the drop-down arrow under connect or click SSH. I'm going to click SSH. This will pop up a new screen. Let the screen load for a bit, and after a while, you'll see the Linux operating system appear in the pop up screen. How cool is that? This is a working instance of Linux OS. Now, you're ready to complete the tasks in the lab. You can input Linux commands and continue on with the exercises. When you're done completing the lab exercises, simply close the window with the Linux operating system. You should also close the tab with the Google Cloud platform. Next, go back to the tab in your browser with Qwiklabs. When you're done, click the red End Lab button in the top right-hand corner of the screen. You'll see a warning asking you if you want to end this lab. After you choose to end the lab, you won't be able to access your previous work. So, only end the lab when you're sure you're done. You can also provide a star rating or a comment about the lab itself. This will help the Google team improve labs for the future. And that does it. Go back to the Coursera platform and continue with your learning experience. This graded assessment will now be marked as complete.