Have you ever worked hard on
something that had a lot of steps and took a long time, only to have to
do it again three months later? And completely forgotten
everything you did? Well, that happens all
the time in the IT world. That's why it's important to
document the work you do. Documentation might seem like a time suck,
but it's a total time saver. There are two main ways we document
information in the IT industry. The first is through ticketing or
bug system. Tickets are a common way
of documenting an issue. Bugs are issues with the system that
weren't caused by external source. Imagine, if every time something
broke you receive an e-mail. That'd be hard to keep track of and
not scalable at all. The IT industry utilizes systems
just to keep track of this for you. Some examples are Bugzilla,
JIRA, and Redmine. These are all-in-one solutions
that help you track user issues, communicate with your users,
and provide updates. A great way to use the system for documentation is to update the ticket
with what the issue is, the steps and procedures you're trying to resolve,
and the solution you arrived at. This is important for two reasons. The first,
is that it keeps the user in the loop. The second, is that it helps you audit
your steps in case you need to go back and see what you did. You can also write down procedures and
policies to create a documentation trail. You have a lot of options of
where you want to write, and store your documentation. You can keep your policies and
procedures in a document webpage through online file storage,
or lots of other mediums. Just make sure it's accessible to
everyone else in your company. If you have a monthly reoccurring task,
like updating old software on machines, make sure to write down all the steps and
then refer back to them when it's needed. Documentation isn't a set it and
forget it situation. Systems and
processes are constantly changing, and so should your documentation. It's important to update documentation. So that you aren't reading
something that's old. One last thing I want to call
out about writing documentation is that you don't need to get
creative with your writing. You aren't writing a short story. You're writing a technical document. You want to be as concise as possible. So that when someone reads your document, they can easily figure
out what they need to do.