Now that we've learned what
the computer components are and how they work we're going to assemble our
very own computer, a full size desktop. Computers are incredibly fundamental to
the work of an IT support specialist. There used in pretty much
every aspect of the job. Aside from work, knowing how to build
a computer might inspire you to try all kinds of cool stuff. You could custom build a gaming rig to
play the most advanced game at the highest setting or like me make a home media
server for all you photos and videos. Knowing how to build a computer
is a skill that can be useful in lots of interesting ways. Before we get started,
let's lay down some ground rules for this ground up build, sorry,
I cannot help myself. We should think about
electrostatic discharge and try to prevent unwanted static from
harming our very expensive components. Have you ever rubbed yourself socks on a
carpet and then accidentally zap someone? That's pretty harmless, but
if you that to your new motherboard, you completely destroy it. So how do we prevent static discharge? We can go about this in two ways, we can touch in our two device that's
plugged in but not powered on. FYI, you should do this every couple of
minutes when assembling a new computer. Another option is to wear an anti-static
wristband like the one I have here, let me get it. You connect the end of the clip to
a non-painted metal surface like your computer. And then you separate on to your hands and
wallah your done. While we are on the subject
of anti-static safety, I want to call out that when
you buy computer parts, they'll come in anti-static bags to
prevent accidental static electricity. Be sure to keep them inside the bags until
you need to install them on your computer. Now, let's get making this computer, we'll
start by laying down the foundation of our computer, the motherboard. Remember, there are lots of different
form factors for motherboards and you want to make sure the one you
purchase fits your computer case. We purchased the full size desktop cased
and have a full size ATX motherboard. On the motherboard there
are a lot of screw holes which coincide with the holes
in the desktop case too. You want to match up the holes on the
motherboard to the holes on the desktop. Once you figure out which holes
to use screw in standoffs. Standoffs are used to raise and
attach your motherboard to the case. In this instance our case
has built in standoffs. Let's start start adding on components. Let's start by adding our components in. We'll start with the CPU, so let's
take that out of our anti-static bag. You want to be very careful with these
because they're very expensive, and you don't want to drop them. Once we've taken out the bag, let's line
up the CPU with the motherboard's socket. Something to note is
this marker right here. This has to align with the CPU
socket on the motherboard. Also don't forget to make sure you get
compatible CPU that fit your motherboard. We have a LGA CPU and
an LGA-compatible motherboard socket. So let's go ahead and align
the correct orientation of the CPU and secure it in place like this. So like mentioned before, you want to make sure that the pointers
on the CPU and the socket are aligned. The easy part is putting the CPU in. The fun part is securing this,
just note that when you secure the CPU in the socket you do need to use
a bit of force so it's tightly secured in. Perfect, so
now the CPU is secured in the socket. Now that our CPU is in place we need
to add our heat sink on top of it. The heat sink is used to
dissipate heat from our CPU. I want to show you some cool things. This part right here, this is what
our CPU relies on to stay cool. It takes the heat from there and
then uses this fan to blow it out. Before we attach the heat sink, we need
to apply an even amount of thermal paste. Let me get that,
this is the thermal paste. Thermal paste is used to better
connect our CPU and heat sink. So the heat transfers
from to the other better. To get started,
apply a dab of thermal paste and spread evenly with a flat object. Lets do that on our CPU right here. So first thing that you want to do is slowly apply a slight dab on the CPU like so. Then with the flat object,
apply the thermal paste evenly throughout your CPU to go half way
right here, half way right here, Half way right here, and
then half way right here. Just make sure that it spread
evenly throughout the CPU. You may have to do this multiple
times to get this correct. Okay, so once you have that in place,
you're going to tank your heat sink and then you're going to
press it against the CPU. And something to note is that
these screws right here, they align with the CPU socket. So that can guide you while
you put the heat sink on. Great, once you have all
four sockets aligned, go ahead and get your screw driver and
then tighten down the sockets. So one thing to do, is to make sure that
you screw the opposite sides first so you know that the heat
sink is attached securely. So one thing I like to do again is
just kind of go over my screws to make sure everything
is tightened securely. Great, now that our screws are tightly
on in our heat sink secured to the CPU You have to plug
this Molex to the motherboard. This is important because this is
what controls the fan speed via the motherboard. Perfect. So now, you've fully installed and
connected your CPU to the motherboard. Next, lessons to our RAM. Located DIMM slots on your motherboard. So, these are the DIMM slots
like we discussed before. I have four slots available here and
I have four RAM sticks. Let me pick those up. These are my RAM sticks, and
of course, they're in my anti-static bag Let's take them out. So, as I mentioned before, this build,
we're going to use DDR3 RAM. All right, one thing I like to do before
I install my RAM is to make sure that I align these slots with my RAM slots so that way I'm not going to be forcing
those in when it's time to install. So, if you see right here,
your slots are right in the middle so something I do is before I put it in,
just visually make sure that you got this right and then align the rest of your
RAM sticks to the same position like this. You just want to go like this. Like this. And like this. That way, you're not going to be damaging
your pins if you pick your RAM sticks up and accidentally force it in. So now we've got that, we're going to
put this in this slot right here. Line up the pins correctly and
push in the RAM until you hear it click. You'll know it's secure when both
sides of the RAMs are locked in place. And there's something
else you should know. Your slots right here,
they are both black and white. We're going to stick to
using the white slots. This too. And we're also going to
put this one right here. There you go.
You've securely fastened your RAM inside your motherboard. Next, we have our hard drive. In this example, we're using an SSD SATA
hard drive instead of a HDD. We just need to use one SATA cable
to connect it to our motherboard. So, first, I'm going to go ahead and
slot this in this cage This is going to vary from case to case,
but this one's going to be easy. All we have to,
we just slide it in like so. And normally you will hear a click,
[SOUND] Like that. Once that's in, we just need to use one SATA cable to
connect our SSD to our motherboard. Let me go and get that. So here we go. Here's a SATA cable. So what I'm going to do, is I'm
going to connect this end to our SSD. I'm going to connect this
end to our motherboard. There we go, it's in. Remember, SATA cables
can only go in one way. So now that we have our SSD installed,
let's go ahead and install our case fan. And this is how this looks like. One thing to note is the small x. You're going to go ahead and find a label
on your motherboard that says, rear fans. Not all motherboards have this, but
in this example, we do have that, so just to note. We get those into the grooves,
there you go. My fan's installed, and now I'm going to
go ahead and attach this to the Molex. There we go,
now my fan is attached to my motherboard. For best practice, you want to create
a wind tunnel that takes in air, blows it over your components,
and then pushes it all out back. Check out how our heat
sink has a fan on it too. That's pretty normal,
since our CPU generates a lot of heat, and we want to help cool it
off as best as we can. We're almost done. Now, we're going to connect our power and
test to see if everything's working. So let's grab our power supply. Here we are. First, let's secure our
power supply to our case. Be careful not to damage
the motherboard when you install it. What you're going to do is you're going to
put this in slowly like that, And then just slide it in. There you go. One thing I like to do, is I'd like to put
my cables all the way out to the side, so like I mentioned before, it's not going to
go ahead and damage the motherboard. So now, I'm going to go ahead and
start securing our power supply. Its always fun getting in. There we go So as you can see, I normally like
to go and start with my fingers, so it's easier to get in. And once I put all my screws in,
I'm going to go ahead and use my screw driver and
fasten it, tighten that. There you go. So let's go ahead and
tighten our screws right here. [INAUDIBLE] And four. Great. So now, we've secured our
power supply to the case so it's not going to move anywhere. And just another note,
you can also install the power supply before adding it to the motherboard,
depending on how your case is laid out. Lets go back to our massive connectors. There are a few things I
would like to highlight. This big one right here, this is
the one that powers our motherboard. Another one that we have, it's more of
a legacy one is this four pin Molex. These connectors were used
heavily before SATA came out. Now, we use these connectors to power
majority of the SATA devices today. Most modern machines today will
probably use SATA power connectors for your hard drives so that it may
come with Molex to SATA adapters. Now, it's time for the fun part. First, let's go ahead and connect
our power supply to our motherboard. So that's this big pin
as we discussed earlier. It's going to go in right here. And plug that in like so. Next, we're going to go ahead and power
the CPU, with this A pin Molex right here. It's [INAUDIBLE] pretty tight, but
you should be able to get it in. There you go. So what we just did was we have the power
supply that is powering the motherboard and the CPU. So now that we've hooked up the cable
to our CPU and motherboard, the next thing that we need to hook up are
these cables that are sitting in our case. This is going to vary from case to case,
but let's go through it. Some of these cables are used for
your case's patterns and lights. So for this one,
I'm going to plug these in. Okay. Okay, so our case cables are now
secured to our motherboard. One good idea is sometimes your
motherboard will come with some guides. This will help you fasten your cables
to your motherboard so it's clean and tight on your case. I'm just going to go ahead and
do that right here. Now that we have our cables
securely fastened to our case, let's don't forget one more thing,
our graphics card. We'll need that so
that we can upload video to our monitor. We're going to plug this graphics
card into our PCI-Express slot on our motherboard. Just like the RAM, you are going to put a little bit of
pressure when you insert this in. So don't feel bad by putting
a little bit of pressure and you'll hear a click like this. Once you've done it,
you can tightly secure it to your case. This is going to vary from case to case. And there you go,
your graphics card has been installed. All right, I think that's it. Let's cover up our computer. First make sure you take your
anti-static brace right away. Get our case. Put that in like so, and
just plug, and that's it. There you go,
we finally built our machine. Last but not least,
let's connect our monitor, keyboard, and mouse to the desktop. So first, let's get our keyboard. What we're going to do is we're going to
connect this USB to the USB port on our desktop. Then we'll going to get our mouse,
do the same thing. Connect this to our USB port. And then finally we're going to
go ahead and connect our monitor. For this monitor, we're going to go
ahead and use a display port cable. I want to connect one end to our desktop,
like so. Next, I want to plug this into my monitor. All right,
this is the most interesting part. Let's see if all this works. So I'm going to power it on. I got a blue light, which is good. And of course it's going to
vary from system to system. Let's see if something
shows up on the monitor. So computer is booting up. Let's see, okay it looks like the monitor
is receiving signal, which is good. There we have messages, success,
there we go, it's working, perfect. If you're having issues with your
computer not starting up, that's okay. Check that your power supply can supply
the correct amount of wattage or make sure your connectors
are in the right place. What's this? Non-system disk or disk error,
replace and strike any key when ready. It looks like our disk doesn't have an
operating system to boot into, no worries. That's what we'll be discussing
in the next set of lessons. We'll learn what
an operating system is and what the main operating systems are and
how to install one. Well good job, you've got your
computer up and running and the monitor is receiving signal,
so that's it. Let's take a moment and
think about what you just did, not only did you learn about each
component of a computer, but you figured out how they work individually
and then we built one together. It's quite an accomplishment. For your next assignment, we build
a widget that will let you assemble a computer digitally, putting all
the different parts together or if you have all the computer
parts already, you can assemble one in real life and then write a short
review process of how you did it. If you get stuck, don't worry, go back and review the different videos
covering the various components. I know you can do it. I've had lots of fun teaching you
all about hardware and don't worry, we'll meet again soon when you make
it to the system administration IT infrastructure services course. Next up, my good friend, Cindy Quach, is going to introduce
you to operating systems. Operating systems are absolutely essential
in IT considering that without them none of this hardware we've discussed
would be able to accomplish anything. Tell Cindy I said hi.