Customer service is a critical skill in IT
support, I can't emphasize that enough. You can have all the technical knowledge
in the world, but if the user had a poor experience in the process of getting
their issue solved, you failed. The techniques we'll discuss in these
videos won't only help you with your users. They'll help you work better with
your peers, you managers, and maybe even your own
personal relationships. Keep in mind, these techniques
don't work in all situations. The reality is that no matter how
great you are at customer service, some situations don't
have a good resolution. Plus everyone is different, so you'll need to tweak your style
when working with users, but the techniques we'll cover are intended to
make your IT interactions more successful. In IT support, you work with users to fix
technology and improve how people use it. To accomplish this, you need to develop
a trust between you and the user. Lots of employers believe
that good customer service also builds brand loyalty,
which is a key to success. These lessons are meant to give
you the foundational skills and techniques of how to deliver
great customer service. Customer service practices can
differ from company to company. So while we'll cover the key concepts of
customer service in any IT support role, it's important to talk with your
employer to understand the company's customer service approach. This will also give you
an idea of how much freedom or restrictions you might have in the role. Spoiler alert, great customer service requires exhibiting
empathy, being conscious of your tone, acknowledging the person you're talking
to and developing trust with the user. If you remember nothing else from this
lesson, remember those four things. The most important of
all of these is empathy. What's the difference between sympathy and
empathy? People will say things like
sympathy is saying you're sorry, empathy is feeling sorry. That doesn't really explain it. So let's use an example
to drive this home. If someone fell into a dark,
damp, dirty hole, and you leaned over with a sad expression and
said, that must be a really tough situation,
then you're expressing sympathy. You're sharing their feelings, but
you aren't experiencing those feelings. If you crawled down into that dark, damp,
dirty hole with the person who fell and said, this is a really tough situation,
then you're expressing empathy. You're able to see something from
someone else's perspective and understand their feelings. The word choice between the two
situations is very similar. But the action, the action you take by
looking at it from their perspective, is what empathy is all about. Some days it's hard to empathize,
I know from experience. Maybe you had an argument
with a loved one before work. And by the end of the day,
you find yourself getting annoyed or upset with users. That's the moment when empathy
becomes the most important, because anyone can showcase
empathy when it's easy. But someone who persistently displays
empathy will stand out as a kinder human, and a more professional and
effective employee. Once you have empathy down,
you should think of your tone. Tone is historically thought
of as how you speak out loud. In this technological age, when many
of our interactions are over text, and IT support is increasingly done remotely, tone isn't just about how you come
off during an in-person conversation. It's expanded into how you write,
punctuate, and even spell. If your tone is short or blunt, then the
user will feel brushed off and devalued. But if your tone is friendly and curious, the user is much more likely to have
a positive experience working with you. Be careful not to go overboard
with the friendliness though, it could be disingenuous. Communicating a good tone
is a delicate balance. How you ask a question and how you
respond to a user's question matters. Let's say you tell a user in an email,
turn your computer off and on again and it will start working. They'll probably never respond. And your company may have lost a customer,
because the tone is just too short and pretty unfriendly. While it gets to the point, it doesn't
leave the door open to conversation. What if instead you wrote,
please try turning your computer off and back on again. This should update the change we made and
fix the problem. If that doesn't work, just let me know. It's a little wordier, but it has
a better tone of asking versus telling. Inviting them back to connect with
you in case the issue isn't resolved, leaves the lines of communication open. Tone can be especially difficult
when you're supporting someone in a different region or country. Make sure to familiarize yourself with
the local style, whether that's more conversational or direct, and adjust
your style depending on the audience. In this day and age of text and email,
it's easy to ignore what someone says. If a comment seems like a dig, or it's just too much information provided,
we tend to shy away from responding. It's also really common to forget to
tell the user what you're doing while you're troubleshooting, that might leave
the user waiting in an awkward silence. Whenever possible, acknowledge the user. This reduces the tension
that might build and helps you understand how you're
working toward a solution. Let's say your chatting back and
forth with the user, you're asking a lot of questions
to better troubleshoot the issue. The user's answering them, but also makes
comment like, jeez, I already answered these in my last email, or, I just
want to know what's causing my problem. You choose to ignore this and
continue on with your troubleshooting. You think you're close to
solving the problem and these side comments
are just a distraction. But then the user stops
fully engaging with you and only gives you half-answers
to your questions. Now you're not able to
solve the issue at all. The user's unhappy, you're unhappy and
the company's unhappy. It's a bad situation. Instead of ignoring the user in that
situation, you could have said, I'm sorry for asking these questions, sometimes repeating them will
help new information pop up. Or, you could have said,
sorry for the repeat questions. I don't want to give you a superficial
cause, when we could fix the root issue, and you won't have to chat with us again. This helps them to understand your
method and become part of the solution. It's important to acknowledge your own
actions if you think they might otherwise confuse the user. Let's say a user contacts
you to fix something. After collecting some information,
you go radio silent. What's the user to do? Would they ask if you're still there? Would they wait awkwardly until
you came back on the line? How long would they wait before
ending the call or saying something? How would they feel about their
interaction with you, pretty awkward. But what if you said,
I need to do some research on this issue, would you mind waiting about five
minutes or less while I do that? They'd probably say, sure, and
keep themselves occupied while they wait. They'd also feel more confident in
your ability to resolve the issue. This leads to the most important thing to
remember when working with people, and that's developing trust. This is easy to do if
you have repeat users. They see you every workday. One bad day isn't going to stop them from
trusting that you know what you're doing. But in a transactional userbase, where
the user only contacts the company once or twice, how you interact with each
user each time is going to break or build that trust. Why is trust so important? Without it, the user could be
difficult to work with and could even ignore your advice completely. Empathy and acknowledgement
are a big part of building trust. Without these, you'll find it
difficult to connect with the user. By seeing things from
the user's perspective, you're more likely to find the solution
that will help them specifically. This lets them know that you care, and they'll be more likely to be
engaged in the interaction. It's also important to follow through
on your commitments and promises. If you tell someone you're
going to follow up in one hour, then be sure to make it happen. And if you don't,
acknowledge the oversight and apologize. Be sure that any claims
you make can be backed up. Don't make something up to a user, because
you think it'll help in the moment. Be honest with the user, even if you
think they won't be happy about it. And never be afraid to
admit when you're wrong. This might be the hardest
thing to do with a user, but you'll find that your interactions
a more successful this way. Being specific and empathetic with your
apologies will give it more meaning. And remember,
no one wakes up in the morning thinking, I'm going to be a jerk today. While you shouldn't
sacrifice your self respect, do your best to give the user the benefit
of the doubt whenever possible.