Now that we've covered the main customer
service techniques, we're going to dive in to some of the nitty gritty by looking
at the anatomy of an interaction. These apply to any channel of IT
support email, phone, chat, or in-person interactions. From the first moment you
interact with someone it's important to think
about how you say hello. Do you make sure to tell them your name? Do you incorporate information you
know about them in your greeting? Do you ensure a positive tone? Are your spelling and grammar on point? These are all ways to create a really
good start to the interaction. Some of these things
are hard to achieve though. I'm a horrible speller,
especially when I'm in a hurry. But knowing some of these
trouble spots ahead of time will let you find ways to address
them before the interaction. For me, I know that when I'm in a hurry I need to re check my
spelling before hitting send. Have you ever heard the phrase
first impressions last a lifetime. While that may be a bit of
an exaggeration it touches on some truth. How you first interact with someone
will influence how the rest of the interaction plays out. I'm not saying it has to
be over the top gushy and nice, that might have the opposite effect. Just be professional, acknowledge
the user, and show them some respect. Taking the time to get the interaction off
to a good start will make everything that comes after easier. Let's check out two scenarios
to see how this plays out. >> Hi Gayle, how are you doing? >> Not great, it's been a bad day
trying to get my phone fixed. >> What's wrong with your phone? >> Hi Gayle, how are you today. >> Not great, it's been a bad day
trying to get my phone fixed. >> Sorry to hear that. Let's see what we can
do to turn that around. >> Just by acknowledging their feelings
and demonstrat your desire to help them, you've started to build
a relationship with the user. Of course you have to keep up the good
work throughout the interaction, but laying the ground work is
an important first step. And remember that while you might have
a hundred issues in the ticket queue that need your attention. This is the only one that matters to the
user, so show them it's your priority too. The next critical step in an interaction
is how you respond to the users questions. If they are taking the time to explain to
you what happened, but you brush off their concerns by acting uninterested,
things are going to go south fast. Remember to integrate the information
you've been given into your conversation. This will show you're
actively listening and can help them feel more
connected to the interaction. Let's look at an example. Which one of these greetings do
you think is the most effective? Greeting one. Hi Rhori, how are you today? What can I help you with? Or greeting number two. Hi Rhori, I hope you're having a good day, despite your computer
randomly turning off. Let's see what we can
do to fix your issue. It's important to be
transparent with the user. If they start asking you a bunch
of questions while you're still troubleshooting, you can do two things. First option, you could ignore them
because they're just talking out loud. Second option, you can pause and
say something like, I'd be happy to answer all of your questions but
I want to look up this one first. I've written them all down though. So I won't forget them. If you say that,
make sure to write the questions down. To really build a rapport, try to remember
a personal fact that they've mentioned and bring it up later. Maybe they mentioned they loved cats. Later while you're waiting for something
to load, ask them if they have any cats or what their cats name is. This shouldn't be forced so if you're not
the type to engage in small talk, skip it. Now you're getting to the point
where you're ready to troubleshoot. Just make sure you clarify the person's
issue before you start to troubleshoot. If you don't, you might find
yourself going down a rabbit hole. Imagine that a user tells you
their computer can't get online. So you look at the IP address,
DNS configuration, and you start paying things with no luck. Everything seems fine. Then, 20 minutes later you find
out their machine is online, they just can't access a particular page. Had you clarified this at the start
you would have saved yourself, and the user 20 minutes. It seems simple to clarify the problem
space, but it's often overlooked. Take this example. >> Thank you for calling, this is Lian. How can I help you? >> Hi Lian, my computer isn't working. >> That doesn't sound fun. What do you mean by
the computer isn't working? >> It won't connect to the Internet. >> Do you have the corporate password for
the wifi? >> No, why do I need that? >> In order to connect to
the wifi in the building, you need to use the corporate password. >> Well, I'm not in the building. I'm at a cafe. >> That's odd, your computer seems to
be different than what we normally use. Can I get your name so
I can look up your configuration? >> Ling Chan. >> Do you work at this company? >> No, my friend gave me the number. >> Problem solving is a super important
aspect of an IT support interaction. Being an IT support specialist means that
you could can be asked about anything. Even though you aren't expected to know
the answer off the top of your head, you should know where to
start looking to find it. People are coming to you because they
have a problem they can't fix themselves. Sometimes they feel self-conscious
about asking for help, so be aware of how you probe for information. Pummeling the user with
question after question will probably create
frustration on both sides. Make sure to set context and
explain why you're asking the question. Saying something simple like, in order for
me to figure out what' really going on, I need to ask you some question,
can make all the difference. When you're in person things are a lot
easier because you can see each other, and read each other's expression but
you might find yourself too comfortable. Imagine you're asking for help with
your phone, you wouldn't want the person helping you to just take it out
of your hands without asking. So make sure you tell the user what
you're doing before you do it. If you're supporting a user remotely and
need them to run some commands, don't forget to tell them why you
need them to execute the commands. There's no need to go
into a ton of detail But without some context you could
strain the trust you've built. Make sure that when you're
asking these questions or asking the user to run a command you're
really listening to the response. Those little nuggets of information
may help solve the issue. The last five minutes of
the interaction will set the tone for how the user feels walking
away from the interaction. So, make sure to end on a positive note. You might have solved their issue, but
if they don't feel it was resolved or their unsure of the next steps, then they're going to walk away
feeling like it was a poor solution. So how do you make
a good final impression? Simple, reiterate the resolution. State the next steps. Then, ask the user if
they have any questions.