There are lots of different ways to
use the Internet, we all know that. But I want to cover one of the more
prevalent ways that people access the Internet, through the Web. All websites can be
accessed through the Web. Websites are basically text
documents that we format with HTML, or hypertext markup language. It's a coding language
used by web browsers. Web pages are generally made
up of very basic components. They contain multimedia content like text,
images, audio and video. When you want to navigate to a website, you would type in a URL
like www.reddit.com. A URL, which stands for
Uniform Resource Locator, is just a web address
similar to a home address. Notice the www in the URL? It stands for World Wide Web. The second portion, reddit.com,
is something we call a domain name. Anyone can register a domain name. It's just our website name. Once a name is taken, it'll be registered
to ICANN, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Once a domain name is
registered with ICANN, no one else can take that name
unless it becomes available again. The last part of the URL
in this case is .com. But you can also use different domain
endings like reddit.net or reddit.org. The different domain name
endings are standards for what type of website it might be. So a domain that ends in .edu is mainly
used for educational institutions. Remember how computers use IP
addresses to find another computer? Well, you can do the same if you wanted
to find a computer on the Internet. Let's go ahead and type 172.217.6.46
into a web browser and hit Enter. Wait a minute. What happened? How come we're at Google's homepage? It turns out the IP address,
172.217.6.46 maps to Google's homepage through a critical
web protocol, Domain Name System, or DNS. DNS acts like our Internet's directory and lets us use human readable
words to map to an IP address. The computer doesn't
know what google.com is. It only knows how to get to an IP address. With DNS, it's able to map
Google's IP address with google.com. Every time you go on a website,
your computer is performing a DNS lookup to find the IP address of
the website name you typed in. This trick can be a good first step in
diagnosing certain kinds of DNS issues. So if you're able to access
a website by its IP address but not its human readable domain name, then
there's a good bet that there's probably a problem somewhere in the DNS
configuration your network is using. Understanding IP addresses
can come in handy in all sorts of other situations you might
encounter as an IT support specialist. The source of Internet requests
are usually identified by IP addresses and server logs. Many pieces of IT infrastructure need to
have some kind of IP address configuration applied to them in order to work. DNS is a huge system, and
we'll be discussing more about it later. Now that you understand the basics of how
the Internet works, I'll sign off for now, and leave you in the very capable hands
of my friend and colleague, Gian Becuza. I'll see you again in course two,
The Bits and Bytes of Computer Networking. But in the next lessons, Gian is going to talk about
the incredible boom of the Internet age.